# Property Sales Analysis
<br/>


#### Data Source --> [https://www.kaggle.com/htagholdings/property-sales](https://www.kaggle.com/htagholdings/property-sales).
<br/>
<br/>

> If I'm interested in _selling_ my home or _buying_ one, I need to know what it is **worth**.
> Customarily, for housing markets, interest focuses on selling prices of properties at locations and times.
> An analysis of current market values of properties, comparable to a property that I am looking to buy or sell will help me understand: 
> - _the current market,_ 
> - _how much similar properties are worth,_
> - _if it is an investment property,_
> - _how much I can charge for rent, etc._ 
> 
> In general, it helps sellers set list prices for their homes and, less frequently, to help buyers make competitive offers.
> Stakeholders can visualize it and make better decisions. 
<br/>

> Here, we have an accumulated property sales data for for one specific region, with around 25 Pincodes, spanning over the period of 2007 to 2019, for different property types. The data contains sales prices for houses and units with 1,2,3,4,5 bedrooms.
<br/>

### I've tried to generate insights and trends related to:

-   *Trends in AVERAGE PRICE over years*

-   *Best and Worst Performing POSTCODES*

-   *Revenue Contribution of various Property types*

-   *PRICES to afford '1 BEDROOM' in each property type*


Thus, I've tried to present a factful account of numbers which can help influence a better housing decision saving/making a huge amount of capital involved.
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

## Project Workflow:
-   Pulled live data from **Kaggle** in the form of _CSV_ files.
-   Used *_EXCEL_* to clean the Data from NULL Values.
-   Then, I've plugged the **CSV** file to *_MySQL_* in order to perform my Analysis.
<br/>
<br/>

    
Suggestion and Improvements are always welcome! :grin:


